[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Another area is mental
illness and the problems
of schizophrenia and depression.
I remember in the
early days of my career
when I was giving anesthetics
for shock treatment
in the hospitals, I was referred
a young schizophrenic fellow
who had had a lot
of shock treatment.
And there was nothing
happening with him.
He was violent.
He was aggressive.
He was locked up
in a padded cell.
He was straight-jacketed.
And every drug that he
was given was basically
something to quiet him down.
And he would get quite wild--
and severely paranoid
schizophrenic.
But he had some insight
when he was lucid.
And during the lucid
periods, the insight
was sufficient for him to say,
yes, he'd like to go on a fast
and stop eating
what he was eating
and to take some vitamins and
have some vitamin injections.
He was fasted for a
period of four days.
He was given some
vitamin injections.
At the end of another four days,
he was quite lucid and good
most of the time.
We challenged him with foods
over the next three or four
weeks, three foods
a day, measuring
his symptoms and
blood sugar levels,
and a range of other
parameters and discovered
that he was reacting
very adversely when
he was challenged with
dairy products, grains,
in particular wheat, yeast,
and a couple of fruits.
We gave him an elimination diet.
We put him on his high
doses of B-group vitamins
and some other nutrients.
And he became well
and stayed well.
The foods that he was eating
when he was in the padded cell
was bread and milk and Vegemite,
wheat, dairy, and yeast.
And that's all he ate.
When he stayed off these
foods, he was well.
If he would have a little
of either of the foods,
he would start getting
strange feelings
in the head and
strange thoughts again
and start having hallucinations.
He stayed on his
vitamins and his diet.
He went back to university,
got himself an honors degree
in computing
science, and ended up
working in a major
institution in this country.
His father was told
he would end up
in the backwoods of
a mental institution
by three consultant
psychiatrists in this country.
And this was over 30 years ago.
So what's going on in
the mind and the brain?
Whatever the mind is can be
influenced by the nutrients
and chemicals going into it
and what is happening as well.
This is not to say that
psychological treatments aren't
important.
They are.
But you can't get anywhere
with a patient who's
got psychological and
psychiatric symptomatology
if their brain is
hungry, if it's starved,
or if it's poisoned.
And that's a very
important lesson
for our community to
learn because it's
going to get worse.
Violence is going to get worse.
Schizophrenia is
going to get worse.
Depression is
And we're looking down
the barrel of an epidemic
of depression and suicide.
And it's again related to
the garbage that's going
into our young people's bodies.
And I'm sorry to
say, but that garbage
is being provided by
the food industry.
Indirectly, the food
industry is contributing
to epidemics of nutritionally
related disorders and disorders
that are of an inheritable
nature that may not
have been expressed if the
population was eating properly.
In the psychiatric hospital and
medical hospital, where I was--
one of the ones where
I had admitting rights,
it was a typical
revolving door syndrome.
People would come back every
three months, every six months
for more shock treatment or
more psychotherapy or more
stress management.
And it was just
horrible to see people
who had obvious nutritional
problems being readmitted
for these nasty therapies that
were, in my opinion, necessary.
once, but after that should
not have been required
in the majority of cases
because some fish oils,
some B vitamins, correcting
a magnesium deficiency,
correcting a zinc
deficiency, correcting
the allergies that were causing
their brain to malfunction--
these approaches can make people
healthy and more functional
or more useful in society
rather than being dependent
on a medical system
that is becoming
less and less sustainable
and more and more expensive.
Even our previous health
minister, Mr. Tony Abbott,
admitted he was-- he
told me in a group
that he was not a
health minister.
He was really the minister
for illness and disease.
And so he's really
running a department
of illness and disease.
And we need a
department like that.
We need to have good doctors
and surgeons and psychiatrists.
But we also need to balance
that with health optimisation.
And that's the only
way we're going to get
a sustainable health system.
My position on Western
medicine and the use of cut,
burn, and poison
therapies, as I call them,
is such that if it's
going to be lifesaving
or if it's going to
arrest symptomatology,
then it must be used.
But simultaneously,
the consideration
of changes in terms of diet and
exercise are equally important
and must be emphasized as well.
As soon as you prescribe a drug
or a surgery or chemotherapy
or radiotherapy--
and I've treated
a lot of cancer patients.
As soon as you prescribe
a drug, you actually
compromise their health.
You're going to actually
obstruct an enzyme.
utilize more nutrients
than the patient
can afford to spend
because most of the drugs that
we used are metabolic blockers.
They modify metabolic pathways
by consuming extra nutrients
and increasing
requirements for nutrients.
And it's been well-documented
that drugs, including
antibiotics, interfere with
your metabolic processes,
either in the liver or in
the gut or changing gut
bacteria, balances, and so on.
So it is always the
part of medicine
that is an art
that's required when
you decide on the
management of the patient.
So if somebody comes in
and they've got a cancer,
it's going to obstruct
a major blood vessel
or penetrate a major
organ, and you're
going to give them
chemotherapy, but you've
got to operate at the
same time, the first thing
I would do with that patient
is wait as long as I possibly
can before I give them
chemotherapy and operate
on them.
And I'd have a drip
up with some nutrients
going in at high levels to
actually improve their ability
to cope with the chemotherapy
and the surgery and/or
radiotherapy.
Now, that model
applies whether it
be somebody with cancer or
somebody with heart disease
or somebody who's
simply broken a bone
and going in for surgery.
You've got to look at
all of these things.
If they're low in
zinc, they're going
to get infections because
the immune system is
going to be compromised.
If they're low in
essential fatty acids,
they could end up
with depression.
If they're low in
vitamin B12, they
could end up with anemia,
and so on and so forth.
So the most important
thing is to optimize
the health of that person before
you cut, burn, and poison.
Now, that's going to be and will
be a part of a future health
system.
We just have to make
sure that the politicians
and the regulators are
aware of what is needed.
And we have to deal with
the obstruction that
will come from the
various vested interests
in the professional arena.
But once we do that--
and it will happen--
we will have a system whereby
people do get a fair deal out
of health.
At the moment they're getting
the best in medical care
in this country that can be
provided anywhere in the world,
but they're not getting
very good health care.
[MUSIC PLAYING]